# Welcome to Programming Lightning

The goal of this workshop is to give you hands on development experience with Lightning.  We will start by building up the intuition and an implementation for simple payment channels and then expand to the full lightning network with the help of the lightning development kit.
<br/>
# Prerequisites

We assume you have read or already understand the information contained in Mastering Bitcoin and Programming Bitcoin.  It's recommended but not absolutely required to have a decent understanding of the content of Mastering Lightning as well.
<br/>
# Replit

Programming Lightning is built to be completed on replit.com. The replit will have a starter project ready to go and a tutorial to guide you through the programming exercises.  We recommend using a 2-pane setup with this tutorial on one side and the following tabs on the other side:
- `src\ch1_intro_htlcs\exercises.rs`
- `src\ch1_intro_htlcs\transactions.txt`
- Replit Shell
- Replit Console
<br/>
# Rust

This workshop relies heavily on the Rust programming language and ecosystem.  We will be using rust-bitcoin, bitcoin development kit, and the lightning development kit as we explore the lightning network.  

We do not assume *any* prior knowledge of Rust and aim to have it not get in the way of the overall experience.  

# Using the Workshop

Along the way you might come across emojis that signify something important.  Here's a quick overview of what you might see and what they mean:
<br/><br/>
👉 This emoji means the following console command or code block should be copy-and-pasted or typed out:
```
// some command or code will be here, with a copy button on the right
```
⚡️ You'll see a lightning bolt when it's time to start a programming exercise
<br/><br/><br/><br/>